fears of an expanding
conflict in the Middle East.
After Israel's foreign minister
warns Hezbollah
it would be destroyed
if all out war breaks out.
Israel Katz his comments online follow
Hezbollah's release of a purported
nine minute drone video
that shows sensitive military locations
and civilian areas in Haifa
and other Israeli cities.
And while tensions
percolate along the northern border
with Lebanon, there's a brewing
diplomatic rift between
the Netanyahu government
and the white House.
We are connecting the dots on this
for you with Ben Wedeman back with us
this hour from Beirut.
Paula Hancocks is in
Jerusalem, and Loren
Fox is in Washington on Capitol Hill.
Let me start with you, Ben.
just describe to us the importance
of this purported video, shot by, drones.
Hezbollah says,
from Lebanon
over Israeli cities, including Haifa,
which of course, serves
as a crucial gateway
to the rest of the world.
And maybe more importantly, for Israel.
How does Hezbollah manage to fly a drone
in such strategic locations?
And is this psychological warfare
that we're looking at here?
Well, basically,
I think the Israelis are also trying
to figure out how it is
that Hezbollah was able to fly
those drones
over some very sensitive military,
positions, military industries, the port,
where we see huge oil storage facilities.
They got it all. Now, for one thing.
What we've been seeing from
almost
the beginning of the back
and forth skirmishes
between Hezbollah and Israel,
is that
Hezbollah has been targeting
Israel surveillance
and observation equipment
all along the border.
The Israelis, in fact,
in brought in cranes
to replace the destroyed
surveillance equipment.
And Hezbollah took those out as well.
So clearly,
there are holes in their ability
to see what enters Israeli, airspace.
But above and beyond that,
clearly Hezbollah
has the technical capabilities,
to collect this sort of sensitive
information.
Well, inside,
Israeli territory, it's about 30km
from the nearest point on the Lebanese
Israeli border, to Haifa.
Was it a propaganda video?
Well, the actually,
if you looked at the text in the video,
there wasn't anything about attacks.
It was just very sort of factual
explaining what
this location is,
what it served, what you're seeing.
And it really is a message
to the Israelis,
that, you know, don't don't mess with us.
We not only have the ability to collect
intelligence inside,
deep inside your territory
on very sensitive, sites, but
along with that
probably comes other capabilities
that we've seen slowly unveiled
in the last few weeks.
For instance,
Hezbollah in the last few months
has been able to that fire
shoot down
three Hermes 900 Israeli drones,
very sophisticated drones
that can fly as high as 30,000ft.
They took those out with anti-aircraft
missiles two weeks ago.
They were able to strike
according to Hezbollah.
But the video would also seem
to confirm that an Israeli
Iron Dome battery,
the Iron Dome, is really the back
backbone of Israel's missile
defense system.
So even though Israeli officials
like the foreign minister
talking about destroying,
Hezbollah, Hezbollah
is showing that it's, not a foe
that should be underestimated
in any sense of the word. Becky.
Yeah.
This is,
this is not Hamas
we are speaking about here.
Paula, let me bring you in here
because as we discuss with Ben,
what is going on on that northern front,
which is a, you know, a clear issue.
for the Israelis, there is a serious rift
beginning to open up now
between Benjamin Netanyahu
and the Biden administration.
So listen to what he had to say
about Secretary of State
Antony Blinken yesterday.
It's inconceivable
that in the past few months,
the administration has been
withholding weapons and ammunition stores
from Israel, America's closest
ally,
fighting for its ally,
fighting against Iran
and our other common enemies.
Secretary Blinken assured me
that the
administration is working day
and night to remove these bottlenecks.
I certainly hope that's the case.
It should be the case.
What's the perspective in Israel
about why it is that Benjamin Netanyahu,
released that video yesterday
very pointedly,
speaking there about a conversation
with Antony Blinken.
And speaking in English, Becky.
So it's very clear
that the audience is American.
The audience is international.
This is not for domestic considerations.
Now, it's it's no secret
that there are differences
between the Israeli leader
and the the US president, Joe Biden.
They've certainly
had their differences over recent months,
not least because the U.S.
has been pushing Israel
to to be more careful in Gaza
to to push for this cease fire,
something that the Israeli prime
minister has not openly
said that he will agree
to this ceasefire hostage deal
and also pushing for a Palestinian state,
something that the Israeli prime
minister has said he does not support.
So the differences
between these two sides,
are very pronounced.
It is surprising, though,
that he would come out and
and do this
so publicly
washing dirty laundry in public,
if you like.
And and it did have,
quite a surprised response
from the Biden administration as well.
Listen to this.
We, as you know,
are continuing to review one shipment,
that President Biden has talked about,
with regard to 2,000 pound bombs
because of our concerns about their use
in a densely populated area like Rafah.
That remains other, under review.
but everything else is moving
as it normally would move.
We generally do not know
what he's talking about.
we just don't.
And there's
no Israeli official at this point
that's going on the record
to speak about this.
No one appears to want to have their name
next to this video. Becky.
So, I mean,
Lauren, let me bring you in,
at this point,
because all of this happening
just ahead of Benjamin Netanyahu's visit
to Washington,
in July to address Congress,
we have seen some pushback already
with some lawmakers saying
that they will boycott that.
Have a listen to Senator
Elizabeth Warren earlier.
Do you
plan to attend
Prime Minister
Netanyahu's address to Congress?
No. Look,
we need a cease fire.
We need to get those hostages back.
We need humanitarian relief,
and we need to be giving both parties
a big shove toward
getting to the negotiating table
and working out a peaceful solution
to the president made clear
that he should not address Congress.
Netanyahu.
Like that's up to the president.
But I'm not going.
Well, Joe
Biden facing some quite serious backlash
within his own party, on this, isn't it?
And he's
really looking
at a dilemma ahead of November's
election. Explain, if you will.
Yeah.
I mean,
this is still a month away,
and I think it's clear
that there are many progressive
Democrats who plan to boycott
Netanyahu's speech
when he comes to address
Congress in July.
But this is really coming from
two different places.
You know, on the one hand,
there is just disagreement
with Netanyahu's
handling of this conflict
in the Middle East.
On the other,
there's also this feeling
from some liberals
that you are putting Joe Biden
in this position
where someone who has been
critical of
the president
is coming and addressing
Congress just months
before the November election.
So it's really sort of
the politics abroad
and also the politics at home
that they don't agree with.
You have to keep in mind,
this is happening in the context
in which the House speaker, Mike
Johnson,
has put a series
of really tough votes on the floor
that have fractured
Democrats in some cases.
Now, there's really typically
just a small number
of Democrats that vote with Republicans
on some of those proposals.
But it has been
one of the most difficult conflicts for
the leader,
the Democratic leader in the House,
Hakeem Jeffries, to manage
within his conference.
And so,
you know,
I expect that there's
going to be a large number
of Democrats boycotting
Netanyahu's address to Congress.
We should note that about a decade ago,
when he came to Capitol Hill,
there were also dozens of Democrats
who boycotted the speech.
So that's not precisely new,
but I think the numbers might be larger.
It's also possible
that they have press conferences
or some kind of other counter programing
when he comes to speak.
So it would go beyond
just not showing up for the speech.
It would be sort of more of
a tacit opposition as well.